The Terminal is a film directed by Steven Spielberg, starring Tom Hanks as Viktor Navorski, a man who gets stuck in New York's JFK Airport after he is denied entry to the U.S. and cannot return home due to a military coup in his country, Krakozhia. This predicament leads Viktor to live inside the Terminal, where he befriends airport employees and travellers. The film, inspired by a true story, was released in North America on June 18, 2004, to positive reviews and was a commercial success, earning $219 million worldwide. Despite efforts by the airport's Acting Field Commissioner, Frank Dixon, to get Viktor to leave the airport, all attempts fail.
The Terminal is a drama about Viktor, a man stranded in an airport because of a political coup in his native country, who befriends several airport employees, including a food truck driver, Cruz, who has a crush on a woman named Dolores. Viktor also develops a crush on Amelia, a flight attendant who thinks he's a busy contractor. Dixon, a high-level airport official, tries to get rid of Viktor, who learns English and begins working under-the-table for an airport contractor. Viktor is finally able to leave the airport when the war in Krakozhia ends. A complicated journey unfolds as Viktor tries to get an emergency visa, attempts to be sent back to Krakozhia, and is threatened with his friends being prosecuted for their illegal activities. Finally, fellow airport worker Gupta sacrifices himself to give Viktor time to escape. Despite Dixon's efforts to capture him, Viktor gets away in a taxi, headed to complete his father's dream of gathering the autographs of all the musicians in the A Great Day in Harlem photograph. Amelia appears in a taxi just as Viktor is leaving, but Viktor is finally able to obtain the last signature and fulfill his father's dream.
The Terminal is a movie inspired by the story of Mehran Karimi Nasseri, an Iranian refugee who lived in an airport for 18 years. The film's directors never publicly acknowledged that Nasseri's story served as inspiration. The movie was intended to be a feel-good story that could make people laugh and cry in difficult times. The set was built in a massive hangar at the LA/Palmdale Regional Airport and many new filming techniques, including the Spidercam, were used in production. The film narrative is set in a fictional Eastern European country, Krakozhia.
The Terminal is a well-received 2004 film directed by Steven Spielberg, starring Tom Hanks. The film depicts a foreign traveller stuck in an airport terminal due to political upheaval in his home country. The protagonist Viktor speaks a fictional Slavic language resembling Bulgarian and Russian, and uses a guide book of New York written in Russian to improve his English. Composer John Williams scored the film, which includes several prominent solos by clarinetist Emily Bernstein who was being treated for cancer at the time of recording. The film grossed $219.4 million worldwide and was praised for its storytelling and Hanks' performance. Critics were generally favourable, with a 61% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and an average rating of 6.2/10. However, it has a weighted average score of 55 out of 100 on Metacritic, indicating mixed or average reviews.
